In the present Era, there are too many developments in the field of drones. 
Besides, the military and commercial applications of drones, there is no doubt in 
their efficiency in case of supporting em
ergency disaster operations. It focuses 
mainly in emergency operations, like activity immediately after the occurrence 
of a disaster like nuclear accidents, dangerous material releases, floods, 
earthquakes. For special rescue teams, the drone can help much
 
in a rapid location 
selection, detecting real time situation, counting number of people or males and 
females. Floods are typical for a slow onset disaster. In contrast, managing floods 
is a very complex and difficult task. It requires continuous monitorin
g of dykes, 
flooded and threatened areas. Drone can help managers largely keeping an area 
under observation. Drone can be used for fire detection, intervention monitoring 
and also for post
-
fire monitoring. In case of nuclear accident or hazardous 
material 
leakage drone is also a very effective or can be the only one tool for 
supporting emergency operations.
 
 
A quadcopter can achieve vertical flight in a stable manner and be used to monitor 
or collect data in a specific region such as mapping terrains. Techn
ological 
advances have reduced the cost and increase the performance of the low power 
microcontrollers that allowed the general public to develop their own quadcopter. 
The goal of this project is to build, modify, and improve an existing quadcopter 
kit to 
obtain stable flight, gather and store GPS data, and perform auto
 
commands, 
such as auto
-
landing. The project used an Aeroquad quadcopter kit that included 
a frame, motors, electronic speed controllers, Arduino Mega development board, 
and sensor boards and
 
used with the provided Aeroquad software. Batteries, a 
transmitter, a receiver, a GPS module, and a micro SD card adaptor were 
interfaced with the kit. The aeroquad software was modified to properly interface 
the components with the quadcopter kit. Indivi
dual components were tested and 
verified to work properly.
 
 
a frame, motors, electronic speed controllers, Arduino Mega development board, 
and sensor boards and
 
used with the provided Aeroquad software. Batteries, a 
transmitter, a receiver, a GPS module, and a micro SD card adaptor were 
interfaced with the kit. The aeroquad software was modified to properly interface 
the components with the quadcopter kit. Indivi
dual components were tested and 
verified to work properly.
 
 
